docs: Add documentation for data preprocessor release (#423)
foundation-model-stack/fms-hf-tuning: docs/advanced-data-preprocessing.md

# Advanced Data Processing
Our library also supports a powerful data processing backed which can be used by the users to perform custom data preprocessing including

> 1. Support for multiple datasets
> 1. Creating custom data processing pipeline for the datasets.
> 1. Combining multiple datasets into one, even if they have different formats.
> 1. Mixing datasets as requried and sampling if needed each with different weights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Support for multiple datasets
1. Creating custom data processing pipeline for the datasets.
1. Combining multiple datasets into one, even if they have different formats.
1. Mixing datasets as required and sampling each dataset with different weights.
```

### How the user can pass the datasets 
Users can provide single or multiple file paths, folder paths, or [Hugging Face dataset IDs](https://huggingface.co/datasets) through the `data_paths` argument. These datasets can be in various supported formats like, JSON, JSONL, Parquet, and Arrow. For a more up to date supported format list see [README.md](../README.md#supported-data-formats). Additionally, users can pass globbing patterns to specify files or folder paths matching specific regex patterns.

When passing multiple datasets with differing column structures, users should ensure appropriate handlers are specified to process the datasets correctly.

The `builder` argument can also be optionally included to provide additional information for dataset loading, this argument is directly passed to [HF `load_dataset` API](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/v3.2.0/en/package_reference/loading_methods#datasets.load_dataset) as the first argument.

User can pass builder in `DataSetConfig` to mention the specific loader for the passed `file/folder/pattern`.
We support the following,

> - Requested @Abhishek-TAMU to add the supported configuration here.

Author: @Abhishek-TAMU can you add the details here

### How can users specify data handlers.

Data handlers as explained above are routines which process the dataset using [HF map framework](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/en/process#map). 
All the data handler routines are registered with our data preprocessor as a `k:func` object where
`k` is the name (`str`) of the data handler and `func` (`callable`) is the function which is called.

In the data config users can request which data handler to apply by requesting the corresponding `name`

> with which the data handler was requested and specifying the appropriate `argumnets`. Each data handler  two types of arguments via `DataHandlerArguments` definition above in the [schema](#what-is-data-config-schema), as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with which the data handler was registered and specifying the appropriate `arguments`. Each data handler takes two types of arguments via `DataHandlerArguments` definition above in the [schema](#what-is-data-config-schema), as shown below.
```

 - `apply_tokenizer_chat_template`:
    Uses a tokenizer's chat template to preprocess dataset elements, good for single/multi turn chat templates.

These handlers could be requested by their same name and users can lookup the function args from [here](https://github.com/foundation-model-stack/fms-hf-tuning/blob/main/tuning/data/data_handlers.py)

#### Extra data handlers
Users are also allowed to pass custom data handlers using [`sft_trainer.py::train()`](https://github.com/foundation-model-stack/fms-hf-tuning/blob/d7f06f5fc898eb700a9e89f08793b2735d97889c/tuning/sft_trainer.py#L71) API call via the [`additional_data_handlers`](https://github.com/foundation-model-stack/fms-hf-tuning/blob/d7f06f5fc898eb700a9e89f08793b2735d97889c/tuning/sft_trainer.py#L89) argument.

The argument expects users to pass a map similar to the existing data handlers `k(str):func(callbale)` which will be registered with the data preprocessor via its [`register_data_handlers`](https://github.com/foundation-model-stack/fms-hf-tuning/blob/d7f06f5fc898eb700a9e89f08793b2735d97889c/tuning/data/data_processors.py#L65) api

### Data Mixing

> Dataset mixing allows users to mix multiple datasets often with differnet `sampling ratios` to ensure the model is trained on a mix of some datasets in specific proportion. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dataset mixing allows users to mix multiple datasets often with different `sampling ratios` to ensure the model is trained on a mix of some datasets in specific proportion. 
```

Needless to say the sampling ratio of a datasets is a float and all the sampling ratios should sum up to 1.

We also allow users to pass a [`seed`](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/v3.2.0/en/package_reference/main_classes#datasets.interleave_datasets.seed) to randomize the interleaving of datasets and a [`stopping_strategy`](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/v3.2.0/en/package_reference/main_classes#datasets.interleave_datasets.stopping_strategy) to describe when to stop sampling, both should be kept same for reproducability of the experiment. Both these values are common for all datasets and should be supplied at top level in the `datapreprocessor` as shown [above](#how-the-user-can-write-data-configs). For a list of the supported values of these arguments see the corresponding HF API.

> `Note: If a user specifies data sampling she can expect the datasets to be mixed but individual samples in the dataset to not be broken unless the max_seq_len argument is smaller than the length of individual samples in the dataset`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Note: If a user specifies data sampling they can expect the datasets to be mixed and individual samples in the dataset to not be broken unless the max_seq_len argument is smaller than the length of individual samples in the dataset`
```

# Advanced Data Processing
Our library also supports a powerful data processing backed which can be used by the users to perform custom data preprocessing including
1. Support for multiple datasets
1. Creating custom data processing pipeline for the datasets.
1. Combining multiple datasets into one, even if they have different formats.
1. Mixing datasets as requried and sampling if needed each with different weights.

These things are supported via what we call a [`data_config`](#data-config) which can be passed an an argument to sft trainer.

## Data Config

> Data config is a YAML configuration file which users can provide to `sft_trainer.py`, in this file they can include a variety of datasets and configurations. This data config is passed to `sft_trainer` through the `--data_config` flag.

Reviewer 2: Optional suggestion: 

**Data config is a YAML configuration file which users can provide to `sft_trainer.py`. This file allows users to include multiple datasets and configurations and is passed to `sft_trainer.py` using the `--data_config` flag.**

For examples, see [predefined_data_configs](../tests/artifacts/predefined_data_configs/).

### What are data handlers
Data handlers are customizable components within the data config that allow users to preprocess or manipulate individual datasets. Each data handler has:
- `name`: The handler's unique identifier.
- `arguments`: A dictionary of parameters specific to the handler.

#### Preexisting data handlers
This library currently supports four preexisting data handlers:
 - `tokenize_and_apply_input_masking`: Tokenizes input text and applies masking to the labels for causal language modeling tasks, good for input/output datasets.
 - `apply_dataset_formatting`: Formats a dataset by appending an EOS token to a specified field.
 - `apply_custom_data_formatting_template`: Applies a custom template (e.g., Alpaca style) to format dataset elements.
 - `apply_tokenizer_chat_template`: Uses a tokenizer's chat template to preprocess dataset elements, good for single/multi turn chat templates.

#### Extra data handlers
Users can define custom data handlers by implementing their logic and specifying their names and arguments in the data config.

### How the user can pass the datasets 

> `data_paths` can be either file and/or folder paths and can combine datasets with different formats as long as they have the same columns. Users can also use globbing patterns to pass in datasets following a specific regex pattern.

Reviewer 2: After our yesterday's discussion we could add it like this:

**Users can provide single or multiple file paths, folder paths, or Hugging Face dataset IDs through the `data_paths` argument. These datasets can be in various formats. Additionally, users can pass globbing patterns to specify files or folder paths matching specific regex patterns. The `builder` argument can also be optionally included to provide additional information for dataset loading.
When passing multiple datasets with differing column structures, users should ensure appropriate `handlers` are specified to process the datasets correctly.**

> The argument expects users to pass a map similar to the existing data handlers `k(str):func(callbale)` which will be registered with the data preprocessor via its [`register_data_handlers`](https://github.com/foundation-model-stack/fms-hf-tuning/blob/d7f06f5fc898eb700a9e89f08793b2735d97889c/tuning/data/data_processors.py#L65) api

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The argument expects users to pass a map similar to the existing data handlers `k(str):func(callable)` which will be registered with the data preprocessor via its [`register_data_handlers`](https://github.com/foundation-model-stack/fms-hf-tuning/blob/d7f06f5fc898eb700a9e89f08793b2735d97889c/tuning/data/data_processors.py#L65) api
```
